Yeah, over to you.
Thank you, Sir.
OK, so hi everyone.
I'm deep and I'm an engineer in the Adobe
Forms team.
So in today's demo,
the agenda is basically to understand
authoring, how you can author forms.
We will use a a few Clark County forms
that are present on Clark County's live
website and try to demo the authoring
experience,
how it feels on the forms editor and how
we can use certain generative AI features
that we have embedded in our forms editor
to make the authoring experience easier
and simpler.
So let me share my screen and feel free
to ask for these in between if there is
something that you want clarification.
So let me share my screen once and please
let me know if my screen is visible to
everyone.
Just thumbs up or something and work.
It is, yes, deep.
Thank you.
OK, so to start with.
OK,
so this was one form that was present in
Clark County's live website which was
related to dispute resolution for
children and families.
So to start with,
we will try to author this form using AM
forms editor.
And during the authoring we will
obviously use generative features.
And then in between we will go into some
more deeper concepts related to AM forms
authoring.
So to begin with,
let me show you the forms editor.
So I have this live demo folder that is
already created and inside this I have
created 2 empty forms using our S
delivery templates from before.
So let me just open these.
So as you can see this is let it just
load.
So as you can see this is an empty form.
In forms terminology we call this the
forms editor or universal editor.
And just to make you people a bit a bit
familiar with the interface here.
So here we have you can see three buttons.
So the second button that is currently
like selected.
This is the content tree.
So as and when you add more and more
forms component inside this form,
you will see these this particular panel
getting filled with those components.
The first button that you see it is
called properties.
So this is when you select one particular
component,
you will see this properties property
sheet related to that particular
component in this tab.
And this button is named as Forms
Experience Builder.
So this is where all the generative
related features are added into and you
can simply go and write your prompts to
help you with your authoring.
So to begin with,
let's go to this Forms Experience Builder
tab.
And here we will use this particular
Ombudsman forms image to generate the
form for us.
So here we have a small attachment icon
and I have this screenshot already
created taken of that particular form on
my local instance.
So I'm going to select this PNG.
Just get me a second.
Yeah.
So here once that file is added,
you can see I'll just type/ and you can
see we will getting we will be getting
multiple available commands.
So for now we are interested in this add
form command which actually helps us
adding a form using some kind of a
reference.
In our case the reference is the
screenshot of the form that I just added.
So I will say add form using the given
image and I will just type.
I will just click on the send button.
So behind the scenes,
it's just trying to process the image and
figure out the corresponding fees that it
needs to add and the text that it needs
to add.
So we will have to give it,
I think 1015 seconds.
And now this is a preview of the form
that the generative AI had created.
You have the option of applying it to
your actual form,
or you can again reiterate and ask it to
change something if you feel that
something is missing.
So for now, let's go ahead and apply it.
This it says format it successfully and
it should come here as well.
So let's just compare the two forms that
that we saw before.
So a few things.
So initially the layout that you see
these images, right,
the ombudsman image and the Clark County,
Nevada image that we will have to do
manually.
Still our generative assistant is not
intelligent enough to get the images out
of the document As for now.
But the rest of the things like the
header component of the complaint form,
dispute resolution for children families,
you can see that in the authoring,
that part is already there.
The layouting will have to do manually.
Few parts like how you want the fields to
the width of the fields that you want to
be present in the form,
those are those things we'll have to do
manually.
But majority of the things should be
present there using this particular
Geneii feature.
So even if we go ahead and check for
other components like we have this
particular description which is in the
layout,
you can see that there's a line separator
that we'll have to add manually.
But this description is present there.
Then we have this entire panel of the
complainant detail kind of.
So this is the name of the complainant,
which has first name, middle name,
last name, the address fields,
the contact information.
So if we go ahead and check here,
the assistant that was present in the
form,
it was able to identify the three fields
that were present corresponding to the
name of the complainant.
Similarly for the address fields as well,
it was able to capture all the four
fields that were present in the image.
So here also address, city, state,
zip code.
After that the phone panel as you can see
it is also able to correctly identify
home phone,
cell phone similar with e-mail address
and the complainer's relationship to
involved child or sibling group.
So if you move ahead and there is names.
So because this was a screenshot and we
don't have the actual drop down details
options present here,
the drop down options will be empty in
the generated assistant form.
But we can add it manually for now or we
can add ask the assistant to add it as
well.
So after that.
So I think just one more thing to add.
I think we have also verified this.
So you can just take a screenshot of the
drop down and then say that, OK,
these are my drop down values for this
particular feed and it can go ahead and
generate.
So instead of manual,
you can take even do that.
And even when the initial form was
created,
we can take 2 screenshot this and the
second screenshot,
we're just enums of this there.
And you can create a form, say that, OK,
use my first image to create a form and
second image is to use the drop down
values in this particular field.
So it does support all kind of
capabilities flexibilities if you can do
it,
it iterate you or it can you do it even
in the 1st 30 itself?
Yep.
And just to add here, Thank you, Vijay,
as opposed, this is also capable.
Let's say I would like to display all the
US states, let's say in U.S.
states in terms of PIN code or whatsoever
or two double digits, something like that.
I think it is smart enough if you let's
say mention put that drop down mentioning
all the US states,
it will automatically display everything.
I think we did try on contact us a form
or something like that.
Yeah, and display everything,
all of them in one go.
It's short itself and put the red option.
Yeah, just to add here, yes that yes,
that is something also supported if it is
very general, yeah,
it says something you can use the prompt
and add this.
And since we are already giving some more
touch point,
I just also the touch point on the
starting point, right,
The images right now this is something we
can do it.
But that there is a reason behind of not
doing it because the best recommendation
is so if you have seen a delivery forms,
there is always a header and footer
already being redefined.
So most of the pages or the forms you
have a standard header and footer
available.
So it's only about the body.
So that is the reason we are not even
trying to get that details and put it.
But if there is any such use case,
please let us know.
We can work on it and get the images also.
Yeah, sorry for cutting you deep,
but yeah, I just wanted to place.
Yeah, you can put it.
Yeah, yeah.
Thanks for Jameet.
So the next part is pretty interesting
one.
As you can see,
this is more or less a panel where you
want the number of involved children and
then you want certain details of the
children.
So because this is a text based form,
in this form you have this number of
fields as it is basically a stuck number
of fields.
So if someone has only one child then
they don't need to fill this 2 fields and
if someone has more than three chairs
then this form kind of fails the the the
intent.
So to handle this interactive forms,
we have concepts concept of a repeatable
panel where you can dynamically add more
and more number of fields or remove more
and more number of fields as and when you
require.
So just to give you how it works.
So as you can see this is the panel.
So first of all,
let's just delete this child 2,
date of birth 2 and child 3,
date of birth 3.
To do that as well,
we will use the feature of forms generic
assistant.
Here you can see there is a there is a
command in the available command section
of delete component.
We will use this and then we will add we
will kind of invoke the actual field that
you want to delete.
So let's just write child child and we
will get this child two.
We want to delete the child 3 as well.
So child 3 and the two date of births.
So so let's just try to run this command
and in the meantime, deeps showing it.
This is something a new way of authoring
which we are showing right now.
But you have all this editor is a Viswick
editor, right?
Like you have it directly delete option
on the right.
If you see,
you can just select a field and go ahead
and delete.
And even adding is something you can do
it via tool, right?
So you can just select any panel or a
container and click on maybe add and add
a field.
So that is something all possible.
But this is more of preemptive of doing a
new way of authoring where AI assisted,
we call it as from the experience builder.
Yeah.
So the four fees that you wanted to
delete are deleted now.
Now what we want to do is we want to we
want the form filler to have the option
of dynamically adding or removing the
number of instances of this panel.
To do that,
let's just go back to the content tree
that we saw earlier.
So here as you can see previously it was
because it was an empty template.
Previously it was only having main as
this section.
Now it has this adaptive form which is
actually the form container and inside
the adaptive form it has all the
different components.
So this is the panel which is holding
this child one and date of birth fields.
As you can see what we want is to make
this panel as repeatable at will.
So to do that we will have to change
property of this panel.
As we saw earlier the properties of a
particular component is present in this
properties tab.
If we go there you can see that there is
an option of repeat panel.
So this option is present only on the
panel fields and not the actual component
fields.
So we go and kind of make this drop down
visible and then you have to check this
make palpitable.
So once you do this make panel readable,
you see that there are multiple other
options as well,
the minimum reputations and the maximum
reputation.
So what are these?
So let's go back to the actual form.
Here we have these three fields.
So what we can do is that if we think
that there are in majority of the cases
three children is the norm,
then the minimum repetitions we can set
as one and maximum repetitions we can set
as 3.
So what does this do?
It adds an add button and then delete
button.
So it's it the this properties are saved.
Now if we go and check in the preview of
the form,
so there is an option to preview a form.
What we mean by preview is it's the user
is the behavior of the form that the form
filler will see.
So we'll go and preview this form and.
So now these are the this was that panel
child one and date of birth.
But if we want if we let's say the form
filler has maybe 2 Childs.
So he will go and click on add button,
another of another instance of this panel
will come up.
Let's say he has he or she has three
children,
then they will go ahead and add another
panel.
And if someone adds a wants to remove
these panels,
they can just click on this delete
buttons.
And since the minimum number of
reputations was one,
you can't delete this first instance of
this panel.
So this is this is related to the
repeatability of this fields.
Now till now anyone has any queries
related to what we have discussed or
anything that you guys want me to focus
on on this this form I think I have
explained this particular UI of the
editor.
So one more thing that I would like to
explain that Vijay was explaining before
as well.
This is the adaptive form container.
If you want to add some components
manually,
there is a plus button which is which
shows as add.
If you click on it,
you will get all the particular
components that are used to author a form.
So you will have this checkbox button,
e-mail component, text input component.
So whatever we are seeing here,
right like date of birth component,
you can see that there will be a date
input component.
So style 1 is a text input component.
So all of the components are present here
that are actually being used by the
assistant to build the form.
So you can do that manually as well.
Other than that,
you can obviously delete any component as
you want.
And here's the forms experience builders
button.
So any queries till now in this
particular form?
Hey Deep, just one question for me.
Is it possible to make the labels dynamic
as well?
So you know in the child's section it has
the label child 1.
You know,
if if we wanted to for whatever reason
have that like a counter every time you
add an additional section,
is there a way to make that dynamic?
Yes, Michael.
So it's a really nice question.
And yeah, you can actually,
there are lots of dynamic support that we
provide in forms and majorly we provide
it using a rule editor.
So let me just show you for an example.
So let's say that we want to whether you
want you, you want to add something.
Yeah, yeah.
I just want to say, yeah, yeah,
this is something can be done.
Like let's say when you click on add,
then it has to say child to and for the
third one, it has to be child third.
That is something always feasible.
I think once we jump into rule editor,
maybe we can show we have anyway planned
couple of rule editor dynamic behaviors
and we can cover with that.
But before even going into the dynamic
behavior,
I think maybe I just want to a couple of
things.
So every component which deep was showing
right has specialized like panel has a
repeatable capabilities.
Similarly we for you to open any of the
text field or number deep.
Let's also show that we do have all kind
of validations,
OK customization capabilities we have.
So all the validation can be let's say
make it required,
what should be the mean value,
Max value patterns.
So and if some error happens when that
pattern is not followed,
what should be the error message should
be configured even in case of required.
So all such capabilities are available.
It's up to the author on how deep it has
to use right and error message.
Something I just want to again touch up
on is that if author is not writing error
message, there is a system by default.
Add some of the default message for
required main length,
Max length which is mostly typically used
by common browsers like especially Chrome
similar to what Chrome's it provides.
So that's what it is, a fall back.
So and every component has different
variety of validations.
For example,
data has a different min date and Max
date, but number it will be different.
Yeah.
And formatting since we are in it date.
So we have also have capabilities of
formatting.
Let's say maybe user is ending some value,
but once user enter came out of that
field,
we want to show it as like maybe currency,
right,
show dollar value or some currency or
money maybe numeric format.
So we do have support of all this game.
So I'm just don't want to go into all the
levels.
But yeah,
this has something you can always
leverage all basic features of the forms
will be you will be able to see all this.
Yeah, maybe, yeah,
we can now maybe jump into dynamic
behaviors.
OK, So let me just quick,
I have planned to show dynamic behaviors
in the next form.
So let me move on to that.
I think Michael,
for now related to your question of
dynamic authoring and those things,
I think which I explained it really
nicely related to the presence of
validation support and dynamic error
messages that you can provide.
But yeah, in the next form,
I will show you how you can use our roles
editor to do some add some really good
dynamic features in your form.
So let me move on to then the second form.
This is one form that I found of Clark
County Social Service Complaint form.
So, and it's is the,
is my screen big enough for everyone to
see this clearly, right?
Yep, yes.
OK, so, so first of all,
what we'll do is we'll again create this
particular form using our assistant.
And the dynamic behavior that I want to
showcase in this particular form is so
you can see this in this address.
We were discussing this before as well
right that the city,
state and zip code we can auto fill a
lots of things in this.
So I found a few public APIs where you
can fetch the city and state values for a
particular support.
So what I will do is I will show you guys
how to create this integration that if
the form filler enters his zip code,
you can simply auto fetch the state and
city corresponding to the APIs and they
fill the forms corresponding to those
particular zip code entered by the form
filler.
So let's move ahead to creation of the
form.
Let me go to this Cloud County complaint
form.
This is again an empty form that I had
created beforehand.
So I'm closing this ombudsman form for
now.
We can go back to it if it's required.
So again, the same UI is opened up.
You can see one forms experience builder
tab.
This is the content tree and this is the
empty adaptive form that is already
present.
So let me go to the forms experience
builder here.
What I want to do is now we have this PDF
of CCS complaint form.
So previously we used an image to
generate the form using your system.
Now we can simply attach this PDF and
again on typing this/ you will get the
available commands.
So we'll go and select Add form using the
file, let it generate.
So in the meantime, it comes up.
So I want to just touch base on the
couple of more things.
And yeah, I think it's already there.
Yeah.
So yes, maybe it quit.
OK, So again,
we have the preview of the form and I
will just go ahead and simply click on
apply.
So it will apply the changes and in this
file showcase some manual steps so that
everyone can get the feel of the return.
How you can manually add and delete
components so.
So deep,
actually there was an active form already
available and you,
you asked create one more.
So maybe there are two forms now in this.
OK, yeah,
maybe just delete all the forms which you
already have, yeah.
Let me try to generate it again using the
same PDF sister CCS complaint from PDF
for using file.
SO and is it not always necessary?
Maybe you already have a form and maybe
you want to add it,
let's say a few more fields and you have
a screenshot or a Figma or XD already
available where you can just take that
screenshot and you can use the add panel
option.
So that like add form,
there is a add panel where you can say
just add this new panel based on the
screenshot content.
So it will just go and create it.
So that is also even something which we
have available.
Sure.
So this is the generated form.
Now,
previously we were discussing about how
you can manually delete and add
components.
So let me just show you.
So we will delete these three fields from
the content tree as well.
We'll show.
So you can select the fields from the
editor and delete.
So right now I'm selecting the state
field and deleting it from the from
manually rather than going in the general
assistant and deleting it from that
particular place.
Or you can select it from the content
tree and delete it from here.
So we have deleted support state and city.
Let me add them back again manually in
that flight information or maybe in that
active form itself.
So these are three text inputs.
So let me add this pre text and push
quickly and then we will rename them
using the property sheet.
So yeah.
And now these are the three text inputs
that got added.
Let me quickly go to the property sheet
and rename them.
So here we have this title field.
This is what will show what you will see
in the form in July and then this is the
name field.
So I can name it anything like zip
code_name and so now as you can see this
the title field got updated for zip code.
Similarly, we will do for city and state.
Yeah.
So previously we were talking about in
this form we will show the dynamic API
integration.
So the API that I'm going to use is
provided by zip code base.
You can use any APIs,
any API that you can access publicly be
behind authentication or an anonymous
APIs as well.
I'm using the zip code based API.
So what does API do?
So basically it exposes an API with this
particular coordinate and whenever you
call it using some zip code it will
return you back a particular response.
So let me show you exactly what it does.
So if I just do it on the browser.
So as you can see I'm providing it a code
10005 and country as us to restrict the
zip code search in the US region.
And if I run it,
so just writing me with the details of
let's say postal code, the country code,
lat, long,
lat long coordinates of that particular
zip code,
and then which city actually this zip
code belongs to,
which state it belongs to,
which province it belongs to.
So I'm going to integrate this
particularly in the form and show how
dynamically these two fields can be
filled once the form filler fills the zip
code property.
So to do that,
first of all there is let me explain,
let me introduce to the concept of
rollator.
So in any field you just click and there
is a button where you can see a hammer
button more or less.
And if you hover over it,
it says rollator if you click on it.
So if you click on it,
you will get you will see lots of options
and here you will see an option of create
API integration.
So wherever you want to integrate with a
particular API,
you will have to create a new API
integration.
So let me go here.
And so I hadn't actually previously
created an API integration,
but just do one thing, show you from here.
So I will go to the create button and
here I will explain this.
I just want to show.
So yeah,
so this is the API integration that I
have created beforehand for this call.
This was the same interface that we
received when we clicked on the Create
API integration.
So what I have done here is I have
provided the API URL which we need to
call As you can see in the browser also
we are calling this particular URL app.
zipcodebase.com and their search endpoint.
So I'm using the same API URL.
The method that we are calling is GET and
the content type is basically Jason that
you're receiving the data.
After that because this is an
authenticated API,
had to share the API key here that it is
receiving a default value.
Other than that there are two inputs that
that that this API integration will
require from us.
One is country and the other is codes.
Codes is basically the zip code and then
we have configured the output that this
API gives.
So as we can see this API provides in the
results are it provides the zip code and
then it provides the object where you can
fetch the actual fields.
In Adobe,
we have an A library named Jason formula
using which we are parsing the output and
we are mapping these outputs the output
that we're getting in this particular UI.
So for us what we require,
we want the city field that we're getting
from the results and the state field that
we're getting from the results of this
API.
We have mapped it in the output and now
while creating the rules we will be able
to use it.
So let me show how we can use this.
So let me first save this paper
integration.
Now let me explain what this rule later
UI means right now.
So what we want to do is as and when the
customer or the form filler types the zip
code,
we want the state and city fields to
basically autofill using this API.
So we are creating this rule that when
our zip code field is changed here you
can have multiple options so you can make
it is equal to a particular field.
So this is basically when this should
rules execute.
So right now what we want each time the
zip code changes we want to make this API
call from our client and fetch the
corresponding state and city for the
changed zip code.
So whenever this zip code changes we want
to invoke this particular API.
Now in the invoke in the then also you
will have multiple options to select in
our case.
So in our case you we are using invoke
service.
But I think Michael you are talking about
how we can dynamically set the label.
So if you want to dynamically set the
label,
you can select set property and here you
will get the label dot value option to
change dynamically on a particular event.
For now,
let me go back and select the invoke
service API.
So we are using the get location details
API and now we have to fill the input
values that are required for the API.
So this country field as we saw,
we want to restrict this for us.
So we'll just go ahead and type string as
us.
Then this codes is something that the
customer is filling in the zip,
zip code input.
So we will go and select the zip code
field from the form object drop down.
So here we are seeing the zip code_name
and we select it and in the API KEY again.
This is a static string so I'm Just going
to enter the string value for for my API
KEY Then once you make this call you have
to mention that what happens when the API
succeeds.
So when we have an success handler and
and failure handler as well.
So right now I will just configure the
success handler.
So here what we want to do is once the
API succeeds we want to set value of 2
fields the city and the state.
So I select the city component and set
value of City 2.
So here you will have to go out of the
form object and select the event payload.
So in this drop down you can see all the
fields that we had configured in the
integration output box.
So here you have the city field,
the state field and the postal code field
and the country field that we had already
configured there.
So for now,
we want the city to set to the results
object city field.
And we want to add another statement
where we set the value of state field.
So here we want to set it to.
Again,
we'll have to go to the event payload and
we want to set it to the output of state
object.
Let me click on done.
So now we have this rule prepared.
So it basically says that whenever the
zip code is changed then invoke this
service,
get location details and on the success
that we have mentioned how to change this
city and state fields.
So let me close this and now we can go to
the preview mode.
As we have explained before,
preview mode is basically what the form
filler sees,
the experience that the form filler has
so that the form load.
And so we were seeing for 10005.
Let me just try to type 10005 and click
outside.
So as you can see via that rule
dynamically these two fields got refilled
and you can try with any other zip code
as well.
So this is more or less the idea related
to how rule alter works and how.
So this is basically a very advanced use
case of rule alters.
I will showcase some easier use case as
well.
So let me just yeah.
So do you want to add some?
Yeah, yeah.
So just before going to the different
type of rules,
some of the things I just wanted to cover
here.
This is just a simple one way of API
integration.
But we have lot of out-of-the-box
connectors.
For example,
you have any CRM systems like Salesforce
Dynamics or like AAR,
Adobe Market or Solutions.
So you can paste the data from that and
treat the data or you can just sum it
back to that data.
And we also have capabilities with even
non CRMS.
For example,
you can have a SQL DB or Azure storage
account.
So anything,
most of the connectors are there and even
you can also trigger a flows.
Let's say on some event,
some let's say user click on submit or
click process to next step,
you want to trigger a workflow.
And that workflow can be a power
automated workflow or it can be a maybe,
maybe submit.
You can show the just click on that
submit options.
I think it will list all the right edit
properties on top Wizard wizard.
Sorry,
wizard wizard via wizard not via this.
OK, No,
there is option on pencil icon on top
right behind.
Yeah, yeah,
hopefully the latest one is configured on
this.
Yeah.
So these are the OK,
I think this is is not latest on this.
I think we added the one where the it's
just previous,
but this just give the games up like
there are variety of submissions
available like submit to SharePoint,
invoke Power Automate,
market to am workflow and all this stuff.
So all this can be also done.
I think for one of the forms we are right
now using power Power Automate.
Sure, yeah.
In fact, you know,
I was just about to say that that
especially for the calculator,
we leverage the rule editor.
I pay as a screenshot.
Thank you Mayas for the thumbs up.
So it is very,
very powerful and I just which I just
mentioned, you know, Mike,
there are various banks who have,
you know,
have a uniforms and there are a ton of
workflows, you know,
let's say OTB generation, KYC,
stuff like that.
All kind of workflows factors are very
much possible for with a bumps today.
So we know you are government definitely
you may have many other use cases,
definitely many of the workflows that we
chime in coming forward.
So please feel free to let us know and
help us and we can be there to you know
to help this out.
Thank you open your deep.
Yeah.
And one last thing,
I want to just short ways this was a just
token based machine even that no need to
be provided every call like in work
service he was providing API token that
is you can configure it global and say
that OK, let it use.
And then we also have different auth
mechanisms like auth 2.
0 basic authentication like username,
password.
And if none of this out-of-the-box
authentications are sufficient,
you can always plug in your custom
authentication.
So all these capabilities are and plug
able, yeah, dips to you.
OK, so first of all,
does anyone from the Clerk Counties team
has any queries till now from whatever we
have shown now, this looks great.
Thank you so much for showing the API
integration because I think that's gonna
be a really powerful tool that we can use
here for many different use cases.
One question I asked,
are you so the connectors that you were
showing and you mentioned,
you know can connect to CRMS.
How how can we enable those connectors or
you know,
are there more than just the ones that
we're seeing on the screen that that can
be enabled?
Yeah.
So there are lot many.
So we have few out-of-the-box direct.
For example,
if you see submit to SharePoint,
submit to market too.
These are like direct connectors where
you can just provide your credentials of
the SharePoint.
So there is another UI,
we call it as cloud configuration,
where you can provide the credentials of
example SharePoint and then just submit
the shape and then it will take care.
But let's say even some of them may not
be visible here.
For example Dynamics Microsoft Dynamics
on Salesforce.
So what we have is a route of FDM which
is also known as Form Data model.
So you can just define that Salesforce
API details and then it will just create
a FDM and then you can just submit to the
FDM.
But we have already public articles on
this.
Maybe I can share it on the Teams chat.
Yeah, that'd be great.
Yeah, you can go through it.
But the though the document covers for
the different UI,
but all of them will be also applicable
on this new Edge delivery services too.
Thank you.
Yeah.
So just before just to give a few more
things that we provide out-of-the-box
that can be useful.
So I think Vijay also showed this before,
but we have the option so that once
initially when your farm lenders,
you can choose whether you want to hide
the component or you want to disable the
component or you want to mark it as read
only.
And then all these properties can also be
dynamically changed using the rule
editors.
So as we saw,
if I can go here the rule later box and
just it would just stop that.
Yep.
So let's say that we have this last name,
first name and middle name, right?
So you can basically create a rule
something like when this client's last
name is empty,
then maybe hide the middle name.
Or if this client's last name is equals
to a particular field, then do a,
let's say,
not hide but set property for this
another particular field that you want to
set visible as false for the middle name
or something.
So those kind of dynamism can easily be
achieved from this rule editor.
And yeah,
that is more or less all that I had
planned till now.
And I would like to hand over the rest of
the call to Talmis to show more of
styling and layouting part of the
components.
And Michael, I think you unmuted yourself.
Do you want to ask him?
Yeah.
And and I don't know if maybe it's
relating to this or maybe relating to the
layouts,
but is there a way for us to do like a
multi step form?
So like we fill out a few few form fields
and then hit next to even next set of
forms?
Yeah, fields.
So this is something that I have planned
to demo, but I forgot.
Sorry.
Yeah, thank you.
So we have this we have this concept of
wizard layout in forms.
Let me just go to the content tree.
And so this is so basically whenever you
have created a panel,
right now in the all the fields of the
panel are shown as one by one.
You can see all the fields of the panel.
If we go and change this panel to a
wizard layout,
what happens is each and every field
comes for comes in the next step.
Let me go and do this from the experience
builder,
which I'm just afraid that Telmis won't
have enough time to yeah,
I think that should be OK,
but maybe instead of doing to this panel,
maybe you can try for entire form to
convert into wizard right.
Maybe that will give a good like if you
see yeah or maybe or wait do whatever you
planned.
I think that also we can explain later,
yeah.
Or once try just we apply your incident
information wizard.
So this incident information thing is a
panel.
And now what it's trying to do is it
wants it wants to convert this particular
panel to a wizard view.
Just run Yep.
So I think has done that.
Let me go to the previous step.
Can you Scroll down?
I think maybe it's can you Scroll down?
I think you that panel is in bottom.
I guess insert which panel you have
chosen Insert Yeah,
I have chosen this particular panel.
It was working before.
Not sure why like like there was this
bottom, yeah, maybe just retry.
So add a new wizard, OK,
added this in the bottom.
So not sure, maybe I think that is OK.
I think what you can do is just go to
content tree and just maybe it's better
to show also from content tree how we can
move the content from just exit from
preview.
Yeah.
So this is like Wizard, right?
Maybe just drag and drop that child info
panel directly into Wizard.
So even that should really do it.
Yeah.
So Michael, I think your question was now.
Yeah.
So maybe drag and drop one more thing,
one more panel into it.
So we have something called
out-of-the-box.
We have very limited layout capabilities
like you can organize into two columns,
3 columns or multiple columns based on on
particular panel.
But our entire form or you can also have
use.
This is called the result layout.
And we also have accordion out-of-the-box
and but it's not limited.
You can have your own kind of progressive
way of filling right?
Maybe just show 1 field at a time or
group of fields and based on clicking on
next show or something else so that all
layouts you can customize this layouts or
you can just write a rule saying that, OK,
this are the fields I want to show 1st
and have a next button specific button.
And I'm writing of this clicking on this
button,
I want to show other fields and hide this.
And we have very,
very good recommendations of like
creating a panels or maybe even create a
reusable fragment.
So something we call have a fragment,
for example, zip code, city, state,
these are the three fields or address
section is really is being reused across
multiple forms.
So you don't need to create in across in
each and every form, right?
You can just create it as a fragment and
then just refer that fragment across
multiple forms.
So all such capabilities are there.
I think it's just we were covering only
the few.
I think this is first call.
So I just want to have it more at basic
levels as of now.
And yeah, that, yeah, yeah,
I know we have 9 minutes left and Telmis
has prepared to showcase how can we
customize the look and feel of this form
and also maybe create a new components.
You have seen some of the components
which are out-of-the-box provided,
but it's there is always a requirement
that a different rendition is required.
That is something Talmis can cover.
But Michael,
do we have your IT or development team in
this call?
And could you like to continue in this
call or do you want me to reschedule with
your IT team?
No, no,
here it's gonna be Alpha and myself.
Oh, that's great.
Yeah, maybe then, Talmis,
let's see if we can cover it in 8 minutes.
If not,
let's see how till what extent we can go.
Sure.
Yeah.
Let me share my screen.
Yeah.
Go ahead.
Tell this.
All right.
I hope my screen is visible.
Yeah, it's visible.
So I have my,
I have my IDE open and this is just the
repository for Clark County envy that we
went live with, right?
All the code that that you have for that,
for all the forms,
all the code of the stylings and the
JavaScript, all of it resides over here.
What I'm going to cover through in in a
couple of minutes is how can we change
the styling of the form that you already
have,
maybe the look and feel of the form and
also abilities to be able to change the
Dom structure of each of these HTML
fields, right?
That is something the author wouldn't
have to deal with.
So this is purely A dev dev persona
related thing.
So to start off with,
there's a lot in this repository.
I'm just going to focus on a few things.
We have this particular file called the
forms dot CSS inside of form instead of
blocks.
This is where the styles of the entire
form exist.
These are all the out-of-the-box styles
that you can see here.
And so let's say if you want to customize
some some styles over here,
you come into these CSS variables and try
to change them and then you will be able
to see the actual changes.
But as you see here, it's a repository,
right?
Every single style inside of here or any,
any,
any code that's present over here is
inside of a repository.
And because of the way EDS works,
you will have,
you would ideally have to push the code
for you to see the changes.
But that's not the case for us because we
have CLI tool that'll help you sort of
you do development locally before you
actually push it to the code.
So there is a tool called AEM CLI which
allows you to proxy this particular URL
that's already like,
so let's use this particular form,
the contractors form.
And then there are already steps,
steps mentioned in the documentation how
to get the CLI up installed on your local
machine.
But essentially you just am CLI-- URL.
And then you just give the URL to the
form and then it just creates a local
host version.
So if I go to local host content,
the part of the form.
So if you see here content Cloud Foundry
forms, contact us.
If I go here and refresh,
this form should be visible here locally.
So now whatever changes I do on my local
editor,
it will be visible directly in the
browser.
So for example,
I was talking about some of the colors
here, right?
Let's say label color.
I, it's, it's black currently.
If I wanted to change it to something
like a red or a blue,
as soon as I change them here,
you should see the changes for all of the
labels, right?
That's for the styling for just the
colors,
but let's go into a little more specific
things.
So gradually we'll be moving into more
specifics into how to style put specific
form components.
Style components.
You generally need to know the structure
of the structure in which these fields
exist.
So all,
all of the out-of-the-box components have
a have a predefined HTML Dom structure,
all of which has already been documented
in the documentation page.
So if you go to the universality type for
edge delivery services documentation page,
we have documentation for almost all of
the features we give out-of-the-box for
developers.
And so if you come to styling,
we have extensive documentation
describing the structure of most of the
general components.
So for example, here,
this is a generic way,
a generic sort of structure to how all
most of the components will be there in
your form.
So all of these are going to be there.
So if you see here,
there is a particular class called field
wrapper that'll be present on all the
fields inside of a form.
So let's use this field wrapper to
actually style something.
So let's let's assume that my use case is
to style every single form component.
I want to, let's say,
do some add some style to every single
form component,
regardless of what type of component it
is, right?
So let's use this field wrapper.
And there is a particular syntax that you
need to follow for styles just to be just
to ensure specificity in in CSS.
So this is that particular syntax.
So you go into main form form and then
you type in whatever selector you want to
select.
So let's go and copy this,
go back to the editor,
and then I'll just paste this here.
And then and then because I was trying to
style the entire all the all the
components,
I'm just gonna say field wrapper.
So let me just change this to something
that's more visible, I believe.
So let's just stick to blue.
Essentially what I'm doing is just give a
border to every single field.
And if I go back to the form,
if you see here live,
you will see that a border is being
applied to every single field,
even the text at the top,
a field over here,
this is the drop down that you guys have,
the number, the phone number,
the last name and the first name,
the e-mail and all of these things.
So these are just for all the components.
Now if I want to go to specific
components,
let's say I want to target only the next
fields.
If we go back to the documentation,
there is a particular syntax for all of
the all of the of the classes for all of
the specific components.
For example,
the type wrapper will tell you that it
will will target all the classes for a
particular type of component.
So if I say text wrapper,
they'll target only the text.
So if I change this here to text and if I
go back,
I'll see that only the text wrappers have
been selected here and the styling has
been applied conditionally.
And if I want to now be even more
specific,
these these styles were applied to all of
the text components.
But I want to be specific in terms of
specifying that only the first name,
for example, has to have the styling.
Then if you go again back to the
documentation that you have that field-
name of the component that will allow you
to select that particular component.
So if I go,
I just go into inspect and if I see this
particular field,
it'll have a field- first name.
So if I go here,
if I just change this to field- first
name, I believe it's first- name.
And there you go.
You will just have the stylings applied
to the first name.
So this is all the way from generic at
the top,
styling everything to all the way to
being very specific in terms of styling.
That's all for styling.
I think we will move on to one last thing,
which is custom components.
So you see all of these components over
here are out-of-the-box components like
drop downs and and and all these basic
components.
But let's say you want to create some
component where you have control over the
JavaScript here via CSS.
You're just controlling.
You're just using a class,
adding CSS to and changing the look and
feel of the form, right?
Or the component.
Let's say you want to add a few things.
You want to create extra nodes by the JS
Dom manipulation methods,
and you want to create something which is
a lot more better.
So let's say you want to create something
like a range component over here.
If you see here,
this is a component which takes in a
value based on wherever this is scrolled.
If I open this in preview,
this is just another way of seeing the
preview form.
So if you see the functionality is that
when I scroll through this,
the number on the top changes and it
changes based on this.
And so when you submit,
when the user submits,
it's just going to send 93.
So I want to change,
I want to sort of create this custom
component.
And so the way we do this is every single
custom component that you would want to
think of or you'd want to make for your
use case would be based on top of a or on
top of an out-of-the-box component.
So you would have to think of an
out-of-the-box component that we already
have and then use that to build on top of
it and to change the Dom structure.
So in our case,
because it's a range component and range
component accepts only a number here I'm
going to use a number component as my
base component and then build on top of
that.
So let's go back to the code.
So this is where I will create that
component.
I'm gonna go into the code and I'm gonna
show you how easy it is now to create a
custom component.
We have a new CLI tool that allows you to
create a custom components.
So as as soon as you go in and say NPM
run, this is your repository.
I'm just gonna say NPM run,
create custom component.
It'll give you an A CLI tool which allows
you to just fill in the stuff that you
need to.
So let's say I'm,
I'm creating a range components.
I'm just gonna call it range and then it
allows you to dynamically select OK,
I just want to build on top of some
out-of-the-box components.
So I want to build on top of the number.
I'm gonna hit enter and this will give
you a summary.
This is the range component that you want
to make base component this number input.
Do you want to create this?
I say enter and there you go.
It'll create automatically the changes
that you require inside of your
repository for you to be able to add
custom component and change those things.
So if you see here this,
this structure here will tell you where
exactly the files are present for you to
be able to change and for you be able to
customize your component.
So if I go into form components and then
range,
arrange dot JS is already created for you.
And if you see here,
this is the function that you can now
access to to manipulate the the the HTML.
So field division is what is what is the
root level division that we saw the field
wrapper, the class field wrapper,
which was on it.
This is the entire company.
You could come in here and change these
things.
And arrange dot CSS is a file that's
created for you for CSS and stuff.
So what I'm going to do is I'm gonna just
for the sake of time,
is gonna copy some code that I already
have and I'm gonna paste it in and then
show you how it works.
Then I have some JavaScript that's
already doing the logic for creating the
JS.
And once this is done,
I just have to push this course and it
says status.
And if you see, yeah,
I have the range component.
I'm gonna say Range component.
So as soon as this is pushed,
I can go into my form and previously if I
would have clicked on this add button,
I would have just the out-of-the-box
component.
Let me now refresh the page and now if I
click on the add button,
you will see an an entire new section
called the custom form components and
you'll see the range component.
Here.
I can go ahead and add that range
component and you'll see that the base
layer has been added.
But there are some styles that's missing.
I believe I did commit those, right?
I didn't save these files.
My pattern, see,
because that has to make you save these
files.
So I mean,
this sort of indicates to you that it's
built on top of a number input.
So if you go into preview mode here,
it's actually a number input you just put
in stuff here.
But because I didn't write any JS or CSS,
this is gonna act like a normal number
input.
Once I come at these and push them,
fix the JS and CSS range.
All right, I believe you'll have to add.
I want to refresh.
There you go.
So we see now that the CSS and DJs is
applied.
So if I go into preview mode and I change
this, this should be working fine.
And so when you have a submit button,
the 73 value is what is going to be sent
to the server.
When the user drags it drops,
the user changes this.
This is all for custom conference.
Any questions so far?
Do you guys have questions upon custom
conference or styling?
So Talbiz, sorry to interrupt.
This is awesome.
I think this was not there and we were
developing for Clock County forms.
So this looks great because I remember,
you know,
updating those components or Jason files,
updating the JavaScript, the HTML thing,
and then finally we know.
So I remember we did develop the tool tip
kind of a thing for Clark County Forms
and we used to update the component
models dot Jason file and then update the
forms YouTube dot JS, update the CSS,
and then we'll see the component.
So, but this is awesome for me.
Thank you for sharing.
Yeah, the CLI sort of helps.
Now it'll do everything for you.
So you don't have to do anything.
All right.
Any other questions?
Yeah, I have a question.
So once you make the change,
how do you deploy this one?
Just a regular Git push it to main branch?
Or how do you test this out on the dev
server or state server or prod server?
So you can create a branch and push it or
you can push it directly to main.
The only way if you want to actually view
this particular chain,
let's say you pushed it to some dev
branch,
you just have to come into UI UE here and
then just give this parameter called RF
equals and then the name of your branch
because I'm sort of demoing it here.
So I'm just I just demo and that's why if
you see it in my sort of thing,
I have my demo branch checked out.
But if you're on main,
you don't have to give that reference.
And so you can directly see as soon as
you push, all the changes should be here.
OK.
And this is not related to AM deployments,
right, This is just GitHub deployment,
correct, right.
This is not really look at AM deployments.
OK, thank you.
Yeah And just to have that best practices
also in place.
So it is always recommended whenever you
are working on a new feature or new
capabilities, always go with a new branch,
right?
Create a branch,
make your all changes and then come to
universal editor and switch to that
particular branch and see how everything
is working.
Then take it to the main branch.
So main is like you are live version.
So just to ensure there is no impact on
live like while you're doing deployment
and just and so conforming, right,
This is not your cloud pipeline which
used to round into cloud manager.
You have to go and trigger the pipeline
as soon as you make any changes check in
that is ready to readily available.
So if it is branch,
it is available in branch.
If it is main, it's just ready to go live.
It's already in production,
it kind of thing.
And even the content works in same
fashion.
So once you click on publish here,
I think that is something we haven't
covered.
But once you click on publish,
there is option to take it to either
directly live or directly preview.
So you have both option and then your
form will be live.
But again all this they are demoing in a
specific folder,
so it should not come back to your
existing URLs, right?
Yeah,
yeah I know we we are way over the time
by 8 minutes.
But if you have any other questions,
we can take it or I I just want to spend
on a couple of more minutes on your next
set of actions.
I know we found some of the PDF forms.
I think that is what the past tried to
demonstrate.
Some of your existing forms which are
there in PDF form can be converted into
EDS.
But yeah, before going into that,
any questions you have on this entire
session,
whether it be altering development or any
other related to forms?
No additional questions for me.
Thank you for the demo showing you know
how easy it is to generate forms using
the Gen.
AI and also how extensive we can get with
it as well.
So just thank you for the demo.
Yeah.
So do you have any plans?
Like are you planning to move any?
I think 3 of the forms which we have at
least identified.
But do you have any more forms which you
are planning to migrate to EDS forms?
Yeah.
So,
so we're gonna slowly trickle in once our
team is comfortable enough in generating
these forms 'cause you, you,
you see on the website how many PDF forms
we've got out there.
So,
so eventually our is to empower our
departments to be able to, you know,
create and manage their own forms.
But you know, that's it's a process.
So we're kind of hitting some of the
forms that people are explicitly
requesting to convert into web forms and
then eventually come up with a plan to
see how we can get the organization to to
move with us.
OK,
and can I know how many portal PDF forms
do you have better?
Because I could,
didn't do the crawling thing.
But any rough estimation on number of PDF
forms you have today?
Maybe, yes.
I don't have a number right now,
even with the crawler, you know,
some of the PDFs aren't actual forms.
So yeah,
I can't really give you a good number.
OK, Maybe just rough estimation,
like maybe in 10s or hundreds,
something like that.
Definitely hundreds, possibly thousands,
but definitely hundreds just because we
have 40 different departments, you know,
some some departments may have 10 forms,
some may have 100 different ones.
So it's a little hard to to guesstimate,
but definitely hundreds.
OK,
so I think just wanted the reason I'm
asking is we are currently also
onboarding VIP Pro customers again,
but especially for Chennai,
right and and already I'm not sure
whether me maybe already mentioned it.
I'm just trying to maybe reiterating all
of the 24 forms which Live Today 22 were
built at least for the content creation
has been done using the same experience
builder called as a assistant, right, Yes.
So yes, we do very much yeah.
So we are ready to engage if you have
this PDFs,
whether it is a acro form or it is a
paper PDF or maybe EXFA based,
Adobe has its own technology EXFA based
PDFs.
If you have it and if it is under setting,
we can help you out.
And if you have any plans maybe now or in
future, you can just reach out to us,
me or Meet.
We are happy to onboard you into VIP
program for even transforming that PDF.
Maybe we'll show it few PDF forms.
It will be in similar fashion what deep
has shown.
But we also planning to have batch like
maybe bulk PDF,
take the bulk PDFs and migrate all of
them at together, right?
And maybe show what is missing and what
are things which need to be done manually.
So if you are interested in that and if
you have again in the VIP program works
in similar fashion, right?
You have set of like forms.
We have taken this forms we need to take
live and maybe you can shortlist all the
PDFs and maybe we'll help in some of the
batches.
In batches.
Sure.
Yeah, let me, I'll,
I'll bring that up and we'll see if we
can maybe target a, a, a department or,
you know,
a few departments to to see if we can run
it through the VIP program.
Mm, hmm.
Right, right.
Yeah, yeah.
So, so basically, Vijay, you know,
they do have like 40 plus departments.
So if they can test with any one of the
department and then move forward.
So that would be great.
Don't be great, right.
Please let us know and yeah,
we will service those requests to the
forms engineering team.
Definitely.
Yeah.
Sounds good.
All right.
OK.
Yeah.
Yep.
Thanks so much everyone.
Keep us posted and looking forward for
further collaboration towards this
journey.
Thank you.
Thank you so much for that.
Thank you everyone.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
Bye.
Thank you.
Bye.